---
form_id: C2
title: "Make an application in existing court proceedings relating to children: Form C2"
description: "Ask for permission to start proceedings, or to request an order or directions in existing proceedings, or to ask to join or leave proceedings."
track: children
landing_url: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/form-c2-application-for-permission-to-start-proceedings-for-an-order-or-directions-in-existing-proceedings-to-be-joined-as-or-cease-to-be-a-part
pdf_url: https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/6a291f39db0592d809052b7e/C2_0626_save.pdf
version_date: 2026-06-01
scrape_date: 2026-06-10
licence: "Open Government Licence v3.0"
form_fields:
  - "5"
  - "5. Solicitor acting - no"
  - "5. Solicitor acting - yes"
  - "6"
  - "6. details of application"
  - "7"
  - "7. Interpreter needed - no"
  - "7. Interpreter needed - yes"
  - "Check Box 2"
  - "Check Box 3"
  - "Check Box 4"
  - "Check Box 5"
  - "Checklist - C100 application and form C1A"
  - "Checklist - attatchments to C100"
  - "Checklist - fee"
  - "Checklist - signature"
  - "Language and dialect"
  - "Name of firm"
  - "Person 1 - address"
  - "Person 1 - address, postcode - 1"
  - "Person 1 - address, postcode - 2"
  - "Person 1 - female"
  - "Person 1 - full names"
  - "Person 1 - male"
  - "Person 1 - previous names"
  - "Person 1 - relationship to children"
  - "Person 1, date of birth - DD"
  - "Person 1, date of birth - MM"
  - "Person 1, date of birth - YYYY"
  - "Person 2 - address"
  - "Person 2 - address, postcode - 1"
  - "Person 2 - address, postcode - 2"
  - "Person 2 - female"
  - "Person 2 - full names"
  - "Person 2 - male"
  - "Person 2 - previous names"
  - "Person 2 - relationship to children"
  - "Person 2, date of birth - DD"
  - "Person 2, date of birth - MM"
  - "Person 2, date of birth - YYYY"
  - "Solicitor's DX number"
  - "Solicitor's address"
  - "Solicitor's address - postcode 1"
  - "Solicitor's address - postcode 2"
  - "Solicitor's fax number"
  - "Solicitor's name"
  - "Solicitor's phone number"
  - "Special assistance - no"
  - "Special assistance - yes"
  - "Text Field 10"
  - "Text Field 11"
  - "Text Field 12"
  - "Text Field 13"
  - "Text Field 7"
  - "Text Field 8"
  - "Text Field 9"
  - "What the needs are"
  - "Your solicitor's email address"
  - "Your solicitor's fee account number"
  - "Your solicitor's reference"
  - "address - applicant 1"
  - "address - applicant 2"
  - "address - respondent 1"
  - "address - respondent 2"
  - "applicant 1 - female"
  - "applicant 1 - male"
  - "applicant 1 - place of birth"
  - "applicant 1's date of birth - DD"
  - "applicant 1's date of birth - MM"
  - "applicant 1's date of birth - YYYY"
  - "applicant 2 - female"
  - "applicant 2 - male"
  - "applicant 2 - place of birth"
  - "applicant 2's date of birth - DD"
  - "applicant 2's date of birth - MM"
  - "applicant 2's date of birth - YYYY"
  - "applying for permission - yes"
  - "child 1 - female"
  - "child 1 - male"
  - "child 1 - orders applied for"
  - "child 2 - female"
  - "child 2 - male"
  - "child 2 - orders applied for"
  - "child 3 - female"
  - "child 3 - male"
  - "child 3 - orders applied for"
  - "date of birth of child 1 - DD"
  - "date of birth of child 1 - MM"
  - "date of birth of child 1 - YYYY"
  - "date of birth of child 2 - DD"
  - "date of birth of child 2 - MM"
  - "date of birth of child 2 - YYYY"
  - "date of birth of child 3 - DD"
  - "date of birth of child 3 - MM"
  - "date of birth of child 3 - YYYY"
  - "don't know if lived at address for more than 5 years - respondent 1"
  - "don't know if lived at address for more than 5 years - respondent 2"
  - "email address - applicant 1"
  - "email address - applicant 2"
  - "email address - respondent 1"
  - "email address - respondent 2"
  - "existing case number(s)"
  - "full name of child 1"
  - "full name of child 2"
  - "full name of child 3"
  - "full names - Applicant 1"
  - "full names - Applicant 2"
  - "full names - respondent 1"
  - "full names - respondent 2"
  - "home phone number - applicant 1"
  - "home phone number - applicant 2"
  - "home phone number - respondent 1"
  - "home phone number - respondent 2"
  - "hwf1"
  - "hwf2"
  - "lived at address for more than 5 years - applicant 1"
  - "lived at address for more than 5 years - applicant 2"
  - "lived at address for more than 5 years - respondent 1"
  - "lived at address for more than 5 years - respondent 2"
  - "mobile phone number - applicant 1"
  - "mobile phone number - applicant 2"
  - "mobile phone number - respondent 1"
  - "mobile phone number - respondent 2"
  - "name of the applicant(s)"
  - "name of the respondent(s)"
  - "not lived at address for more than 5 years - applicant 1"
  - "not lived at address for more than 5 years - applicant 2"
  - "not lived at address for more than 5 years - respondent 1"
  - "not lived at address for more than 5 years - respondent 2"
  - "permission has already been granted"
  - "permission is not required - yes"
  - "postcode 1 - applicant 1"
  - "postcode 1 - applicant 2"
  - "postcode 1 - respondent 1"
  - "postcode 1 - respondent 2"
  - "postcode 2 - applicant 1"
  - "postcode 2 - applicant 2"
  - "postcode 2 - respondent 1"
  - "postcode 2 - respondent 2"
  - "previous addresses - applicant 1"
  - "previous addresses - applicant 2"
  - "previous addresses - respondent 1"
  - "previous addresses - respondent 2"
  - "previous names - applicant 1"
  - "previous names - applicant 2"
  - "previous names - respondent 1"
  - "previous names - respondent 2"
  - "relationship to applicant(s) - child 1"
  - "relationship to applicant(s) - child 2"
  - "relationship to applicant(s) - child 3"
  - "relationship to respondent(s) - child 1"
  - "relationship to respondent(s) - child 2"
  - "relationship to respondent(s) - child 3"
  - "respondent 1 - female"
  - "respondent 1 - male"
  - "respondent 1 - place of birth"
  - "respondent 1's date of birth - DD"
  - "respondent 1's date of birth - MM"
  - "respondent 1's date of birth - YYYY"
  - "respondent 2 - female"
  - "respondent 2 - male"
  - "respondent 2 - place of birth"
  - "respondent 2's date of birth - DD"
  - "respondent 2's date of birth - MM"
  - "respondent 2's date of birth - YYYY"
  - "special arrangements needed"
---

# Make an application in existing court proceedings relating to children: Form C2

Ask for permission to start proceedings, or to request an order or directions in existing proceedings, or to ask to join or leave proceedings.

## Form Content

C2
To be completed by the court
Application
The Family Court sitting at
• For permission to start proceedings
• For an order or directions in existing Date issued
proceedings
• To be joined as, or cease to be, a party in Case number
existing family proceedings under the
Children Act 1989
Help with Fees –
H W F – –
Ref no. (if applicable)
Before completing this form please read the leaflet ‘CB1 – Making an application – Children and the Family Courts’.
You can get a copy from your local court or online at hmctsformfinder.justice.gov.uk
• Failure to complete every question or state if it does not apply, could delay the case, as the court will have to
ask you to provide the additional information required.
• If there is not enough space please attach separate sheets.
• Cafcass/CAFCASS CYMRU will carry out checks as it considers necessary. See Section J of leaflet CB1 for more
information about Cafcass and CAFCASS CYMRU.
If you are applying for one of the following private law Children Act 1989 orders you must file a separate completed
FM1 form with this application:
• A parental responsibility order (sections 4(1)(c), 4ZA(1)(c) or 4A(1)(b) of the Children Act 1989) or an order
terminating parental responsibility (sections 4(2A), 4ZA(5) or 4A(3) of that Act).
• An order appointing a child’s guardian (section 5(1) of the Children Act 1989) or an order terminating the
appointment (section 6(7) of that Act).
• An order giving permission to change a child’s surname or remove a child from the United Kingdom
(sections 13(1) or 14C of the Children Act 1989).
• A special guardianship order or an order varying or discharging such an order (section 14D of the Children
Act 1989).
Domestic Abuse Act 2021
Provisions in the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 have the effect of preventing an individual accused of abuse from
questioning in person a party or witness in the case who is the victim of the abuse, and also prevents a victim of abuse
from questioning in person the accused individual in specified circumstances.
If the court directs that the proceedings be listed for a hearing where oral evidence may be given, form EX740
(person making the abuse accusation) or form EX741 (person accused of abuse) ‘Application and information needed
by the court to consider whether to prevent (prohibit) questioning (cross-examination) in person’ may need to be
completed so that the court can consider whether questioning in person should be prevented. The court will send the
appropriate form with the court order.
C2 Application (06.26) © Crown copyright 2026

1. Summary of application
Your name (the applicant(s))
The respondent’s name(s)
See Sections G and H of the booklet CB1.
Some people need permission to apply - See Section C of the leaflet CB1
Are you applying for permission to Yes
issue an application?
Permission not required Permission already granted
If you are making an application in
existing proceedings, please give the
existing case number(s).
Please list the name(s) of the child(ren) and the type(s) of order you are applying for, starting with the oldest.
To understand which order to apply for read the booklet CB1 Section D.
Child 1 - Full name of child Date of birth Gender Order(s) applied for
Male
D D / M M / Y Y Y Y
Female
Relationship to applicant(s) Relationship to respondent(s)
Child 2 - Full name of child Date of birth Gender Order(s) applied for
Male
D D / M M / Y Y Y Y
Female
Relationship to applicant(s) Relationship to respondent(s)
Child 3 - Full name of child Date of birth Gender Order(s) applied for
Male
D D / M M / Y Y Y Y
Female
Relationship to applicant(s) Relationship to respondent(s)
2

2. About you (the applicant(s))
Applicant 1 (You) Applicant 2 (if applicable)
Full names
Previous names (if any)
Gender Male Female Male Female
Date of birth (If under 18 read
D D / M M / Y Y Y Y D D / M M / Y Y Y Y
section R of leaflet CB1)
Place of birth
(town/county/country)
If you do not wish your contact details to be made known to the
respondent(s) leave the details below blank and complete Confidential contact
details form C8. You can get a copy of the form C8 from hmctsformfinder.
justice.gov.uk or from any family court office. Make sure that any documents
submitted with this form, or at a later date, do not include the confidential
contact details you wish to withhold.
Address
Postcode Postcode
Home telephone number
Mobile telephone number
Email address
Have you lived at this address for
Yes No Yes No
more than 5 years?
If No, please provide details of all previous addresses you have lived at for the
last 5 years.
3

3. The respondents
Sections G and H of the the booklet ‘CB1 - Making an application - Children and the Family Courts’ explain who a
respondent is.
If there are more than 2 respondents please continue on a separate sheet.
Respondent 1 Respondent 2
Full names
Previous names (if known)
Gender Male Female Male Female
Date of birth (If party under 18
D D / M M / Y Y Y Y D D / M M / Y Y Y Y
read section R of leaflet CB1)
Place of birth
(town/county/country)
If there are more than two people in the case and the contact details of a
respondent need to be kept confidential from other people in the case,
leave the details below blank and complete the confidential contact details
form C8. You can get a copy of the form C8 from hmctsformfinder.justice.gov.
uk or from any family court office. Make sure that any documents you submit
with this form, or at a later date, do not disclose those confidential contact
details.
Address
Postcode Postcode
Home telephone number
Mobile telephone number
Email address
4

Have they lived at this address
Yes No Don’t know Yes No Don’t know
for more than 5 years?
If No, please provide details of all previous addresses they have lived at for the
last 5 years.
5

4. Others who should be given notice
There may be other people who should be notified of your application, for example, someone who cares for the
child but is not a parent. Sections G and I of the the booklet ‘CB1 - Making an application - Children and the
Family Courts’ explain who others are.
Person1 Person 2
Full names
Previous names (if known)
Gender Male Female Male Female
Date of birth D D / M M / Y Y Y Y D D / M M / Y Y Y Y
If the contact details of a person named in this section of the form need to
be kept confidential from other people in the case, leave the details below
blank and complete the confidential contact details form C8. You can get a
copy of the form C8 from hmctsformfinder.justice.gov.uk or from any family
court office. Make sure that any documents you submit with this form, or at a
later date, do not disclose those confidential contact details.
Address
Postcode Postcode
Please state their relationship to
the children listed on page 2. If
their relationship is not the same
to each child please state their
relationship to each child
6

5. Solicitor’s details
Do you have a solicitor acting
Yes No If No, see section R of leaflet CB1 for more information
for you?
If Yes, please give the following details
Your solicitor’s name
Name of firm
Address
Postcode
Telephone number
Fax number
DX number
Solicitor’s Reference
Fee account no.
Email address
6. Details of application
Please give brief details about
what you are applying for and your
reasons for making the application.
7

7. Attending the court
Section N of the the booklet ‘CB1 - Making an application - Children and the Family Courts’ provides information
about attending court.
If you require an interpreter, you must tell the court now so that one can be arranged.
Do you or any of the parties need
Yes No
an interpreter at court?
If Yes, please specify the language and dialect:
If attending the court, do you or
Yes No
any of the parties involved have
a disability for which you require
special assistance or special facilities? If Yes, please say what the needs are
Please say whether the court needs
to make any special arrangements
for you to attend court (e.g.
providing you with a separate
waiting room from the respondent
or other security provisions).
Court staff may get in touch with you about the requirements
continued over the page
8

8. Statement of truth
I understand that proceedings for contempt of court may be brought against anyone who makes,
or causes to be made, a false statement in a document verified by a statement of truth without an
honest belief in its truth.
I believe that the facts stated in this form are true.
The applicant believes that the facts stated in this form are true. I am authorised by the applicant to
sign this statement.
Signature
Applicant
Applicant’s legal representative (as defined by FPR 2.3(1))
Date
Day Month Year
Full name
Name of legal representative’s firm
If signing on behalf of firm or company give position or office held
9

What to do now
Court fees
If you are applying for permission to issue an
application You may need to pay a fee with your application.
You should read leaflet EX50 Civil and family court
Check you have provided copies of the form C100
fees to find out what fee, if any, you need to pay. This
application and form C1A if appropriate
leaflet is available from your local court or online at
hmctsformfinder.justice.gov.uk
Check any necessary documents are attached to the
form C100 application
You may be exempt from paying all or part of the fee.
The combined booklet and application form
For all applications
‘EX160A Court and Tribunal Fees - Do you have to pay
Check you have completed and signed Section 8 of
them’ gives more information. You can get a copy from
this form
the court or download a copy from our website at
hmctsformfinder.justice.gov.uk
Check you have attached the correct fee.
Now take or send your application with the correct fee
and correct number of copies (one copy for the court,
one copy for Cafcass/CAFCASS CYMRU and one for each
party or other person) to the court.
10
