---
form_id: D10
title: "Respond to a divorce, dissolution or judicial separation application: Form D10"
description: "Use this form to respond to a divorce, dissolution or judicial separation application."
track: divorce
landing_url: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/respond-to-a-divorce-dissolution-or-judicial-separation-application-form-d10
pdf_url: https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/66472b63b7249a4c6e9d36e2/D10_0524.pdf
version_date: ""
scrape_date: 2026-06-10
licence: "Open Government Licence v3.0"
form_fields:
  - "Check Box 28"
  - "Check Box 29"
  - "Check Box 30"
  - "Check Box 32"
  - "Check Box1"
  - "Check Box2"
  - "Check Box25"
  - "Check Box26"
  - "Check Box3"
  - "Check Box30"
  - "Check Box31"
  - "Check Box32"
  - "Check Box33"
  - "Text Field 3"
  - "Text Field 4"
  - "Text Field 52"
  - "Text Field 53"
  - "Text Field 54"
  - "Text Field 55"
  - "Text Field 56"
  - "Text Field 57"
  - "Text Field 58"
  - "Text Field 68"
  - "Text Field 69"
  - "Text Field 70"
  - "Text Field 71"
  - "Text Field 77"
  - "Text Field 82"
  - "Text Field 83"
  - "Text Field 84"
  - "Text24"
  - "Text27"
  - "Text28"
  - "Text29"
  - "Text35"
  - "Text36"
  - "Text37"
  - "Text38"
  - "Text39"
---

# Respond to a divorce, dissolution or judicial separation application: Form D10

Use this form to respond to a divorce, dissolution or judicial separation application.

## Form Content

Case number
Respond to a divorce, dissolution Name of applicant
or (judicial) separation application
Acknowledgment of service by
the respondent
Name of respondent
To complete this form you will need to refer to the application form,
Case query helpline
D8 – Application for a divorce or dissolution (ending a civil partnership)
0300 303 0642
or D8S – Application for a (judicial) separation order.
Monday to Friday
10am to 6pm
You must respond to the application within 14 days of receiving it.
Money and property when
1. Is the application for divorce, dissolution or (judicial) separation?
you divorce or separate
You may be able to solve
Divorce
your financial and other
Dissolution arrangements outside of
court, for example through
(Judicial) Separation mediation. You can find more
information on mediation at
www.gov.uk/money-property-
2. Have you read the application (D8 – Application for a divorce or
when-relationship-ends/
dissolution (ending a civil partnership) or D8S – Application for a
mediation
(judicial) separation order)?
You can find more guidance
on financial orders and
Yes
how to get help agreeing
No on any issues at www.gov.
uk/money-property-when-
relationship-ends/apply-for-
3. When did you receive the application?
a-financial-order
Day Month Year
Child arrangements
You can find information on
making child arrangements
if you divorce or separate at:
www.gov.uk/looking-after-
children-divorce
Page 1
D10 Respond to a divorce, dissolution or (judicial) separation application
Acknowledgment of service by the respondent (05.24) ©Crown copyright 2024
YLNO
ESU
STCMH

You can only dispute the divorce/dissolution/(judicial) separation
if you do not believe the courts have jurisdiction to deal with it, if
you can prove the marriage was never valid or if the marriage or civil
partnership has already legally ended.
Note 4: If you dispute
4. Do you intend to dispute the divorce/dissolution/(judicial)
the divorce/dissolution/
separation?
(judicial) separation
you will need to submit
Yes. You will need to complete form ‘D8B – Answer a divorce,
another form (known as the
dissolution, (judicial) separation or nullity application’
‘answer’) with your reason
for disputing the divorce/
No
dissolution/(judicial)
separation.
You have 21 days to submit
your answer from the date
the acknowledgment of
service must be filed (14 days
from the date the application
was served on you).
If you do not submit the
answer by the deadline,
your spouse will usually
be able to continue with
the divorce/dissolution/
(judicial) separation as if
you did not dispute it.
The court will accept the
statement of irretrievable
breakdown as conclusive
evidence that your marriage
or civil partnership has
broken down irretrievably.
Page 2

Jurisdiction of the courts Jurisdiction
Your husband/wife/civil partner was asked some questions to find
Your spouse has said that
out whether the courts of England and Wales have the legal power the courts of England and
(jurisdiction) to grant you a divorce/dissolution/(judicial) separation. Wales have jurisdiction
because at least one the
following or a combination
The usual basis for the court to have jurisdiction is where one or both
of the following applies.
parties are habitually resident in England and Wales.
If you are not sure if this
applies to you, you should
get legal advice.
Check the application called ‘Why the court can deal with the case
Habitual residence
(jurisdiction)’ to answer this question.
If your life is mainly based in
England or Wales then you
5. Do you agree the courts of England and Wales have jurisdiction? are what is legally known
as ‘habitually resident’.
This may include working,
Yes. I agree the courts have jurisdiction
owning property, having
No. I do not agree the courts have jurisdiction because children in school, and your
main family life taking place
in England or Wales.
This is not a complete list
of what makes up habitual
residence, and just because
some of them apply to you
does not mean you are
habitually resident.
Domicile
Your domicile is usually
the place in which you
were born, regard as your
permanent home and to
which you have the closest
ties. However, domicile can
be more complex if you or
your parents have moved
countries in the past.
When you are born, you
acquire a domicile of origin.
This is usually the country
your father considered his
6. In which country is your life mainly based?
permanent home if your
parents were married and/
or the country your mother
considered her permanent
home if your parents were
unmarried, or your father
had died.
If you leave your domicile of
origin and settle in another
country as an adult, the new
country may become your
domicile of choice.
Page 3

If this is a response to a (judicial) separation, please go to question 8.
7. Do you intend to ask the court to delay the divorce or dissolution Note 7: When making its
until it is satisfied with your financial situation? decision the court will take
into account both of your
Yes. You will need to complete ‘Form B – Notice of an individual circumstances
application to consider the financial position of the (including your ages,
health, conduct, earning
respondent after the divorce’. The court will need to
capabilities and financial
receive it before the final order is granted.
resources and obligations)
No and your financial position
should your spouse/civil
partner die first.
8. Are there any existing or previous court proceedings relating to
your marriage/civil partnership or affecting its validity (including The court may decide
not to delay the divorce/
any existing or concluded court proceedings overseas)?
dissolution if there are
circumstances under which
Yes. Give further details in the box below.
it should not be delayed
No and the court is satisfied
that your spouse will
Give details of any existing or previous court proceedings
make appropriate financial
to include:
provision for you.
• case numbers
The application states
• what they are about whether or not your spouse
• names of those involved is applying for a financial
order. You can also apply for
• the country where the proceedings took place or
a financial order yourself.
are taking place
For more information
• name of the court, tribunal or authority dealing with
please go to the following
the proceedings
web page www.gov.uk/
• date the proceedings began and dates of any future money-property-when-
hearings relationship-ends?step-by-
step-nav=84b7fdca-a8b0-
4500-bc27-dafeab9f1401
9. What language do you want to receive emails and documents in?
English
Welsh
Page 4

Statement of truth
I understand that proceedings for contempt of court may be
brought against anyone who makes, or causes to be made, a false
statement in a document verified by a statement of truth without
an honest belief in its truth.
I believe that the facts stated in this form and any continuation
sheets are true.
The respondent believes that the facts stated in this form
and any continuation sheets are true. I am authorised by the
respondent to sign this statement.
Signature
Respondent
Respondent’s legal representative (as defined by FPR 2.3(1))
Date
Day Month Year
Full name
Name of respondent’s legal representative’s firm
If signing on behalf of firm or company give position or office held
Page 5

Address details for service of documents
Do not share my details with my spouse or civil partner.
Download and fill
I will give you my details in the separate form C8.
out form C8 with
www.gov.uk/government/publications/form-c8-confidential-contact- your details.
details-family-procedure-rules-2010-rule-291
If you have ticked the box above do not give your address, email or
phone number here.
You may share my details with my spouse or civil partner.
My details are:
Building and street
Second line of address
Town or city
County (optional)
Country
Postcode If your details are
confidential they should
be included on the C8
form and not here.
Email address If the court needs to
contact you, it will be able
to do so more quickly if you
provide your email address
and phone number.
The email address should
not be the same as the one
Phone number (optional) given for the applicant.
Page 6

You can return your response by post or email to:
Email: divorcecase@justice.gov.uk
Post: HMCTS Divorce and Dissolution service
PO Box 13226
Harlow
CM20 9UG
Phone: 0300 303 0642
Monday to Friday 10am to 6pm
Page 7
