---
form_id: D89
title: "Request a court bailiff to deliver papers: Form D89"
description: Use this form to ask for a court bailiff to hand deliver papers to the other party in family court proceedings.
track: cross_cutting
landing_url: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/form-d89-request-personal-service-of-papers-by-a-court-bailiff
pdf_url: https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/678646f6f029f40e50881757/D89_0125.pdf
version_date: 2025-01-21
scrape_date: 2026-06-10
licence: "Open Government Licence v3.0"
form_fields:
  - "Check Box 35"
  - "Check Box 36"
  - "Check Box 38"
  - "Check Box 39"
  - "Check Box 40"
  - "Check Box 42"
  - "Check Box 43"
  - "Check Box 44"
  - "Check Box25"
  - "Check Box25a"
  - "Check Box26"
  - "Check Box27"
  - "Check Box28"
  - "Check Box29"
  - "Check Box30"
  - "Check Box33"
  - "Check Box34"
  - "Check Box36"
  - "Check Box37"
  - "Check Box38"
  - "Check Box39"
  - "Check Box40"
  - "Check Box44"
  - "Check Box45"
  - "Text Field 107"
  - "Text Field 108"
  - "Text Field 124"
  - "Text Field 125"
  - "Text Field 126"
  - "Text Field 127"
  - "Text Field 128"
  - "Text Field 129"
  - "Text Field 130"
  - "Text Field 131"
  - "Text Field 132"
  - "Text Field 3"
  - "Text Field 4"
  - "Text Field 62"
  - "Text Field 63"
  - "Text Field 66"
  - "Text Field 67"
  - "Text Field 68"
  - "Text Field 73"
  - "Text Field 74"
  - "Text Field 75"
  - "Text Field 76"
  - "Text Field 77"
  - "Text Field 78"
  - "Text Field 79"
  - "Text Field 80"
  - "Text Field 81"
  - "Text Field 82"
  - "Text Field 83"
  - "Text Field 84"
  - "Text Field 85"
  - "Text Field 93"
  - "Text Field 94"
  - "Text Field 95"
  - "Text Field 96"
  - "Text Field 97"
  - "Text Field 98"
  - "Text Field 99"
  - "Text17"
  - "Text18"
  - "Text19"
  - "Text20"
  - "Text21"
  - "Text22"
  - "Text23"
  - "Text24"
  - "Text32"
  - "Text35"
  - "Text41"
  - "Text42"
  - "Text43"
  - "Text46"
  - "Text47"
---

# Request a court bailiff to deliver papers: Form D89

Use this form to ask for a court bailiff to hand deliver papers to the other party in family court proceedings.

## Form Content

Case number
Request for personal service by Name of applicant
a court bailiff
Name of respondent
Date
Day Month Year
I request that the court bailiff serve the application in this case.
1. Type of case Note 1: For example,
injuction, child
arrangements, divorce,
dissolution, separation etc.
2. The full name of the respondent is
3. The respondent’s date of birth
Day Month Year
4. The respondent’s phone number
HMCTS USE ONLY
Page 1
D89 Request for personal service by a court bailiff (01.25) ©Crown copyright 2025

5. Please provide a description of the person or if available a recent
photograph.
height
hair colour
eye colour
ethnicity
and any distinguishing marks or features.
I enclose a recent photograph of the person Note 5: Any photograph
provided must only contain
I do not have a recent photograph of the person an image of the respondent.
6. When would be the best time(s) for service?
7. Is the respondent currently resident in a refuge?
Yes
No
Do not know
Page 2

8. The address (in England and Wales) at which bailiff service should
be attempted is:
Building and street
Second line of address
Town or city
County (optional)
Postcode
9. If they have a vehicle please give details
Manufacturer
Model
Colour
Registration no.
10. In your dealings with the respondent or other occupants of the
property (if applicable) have you encountered or are you aware of
any of the following?
Has the respondent ever been violent or been convicted of a violent
offence?
Yes
No
Not known
Page 3

Has the respondent ever made verbal or written threats either
generally or specifically in relation to this application?
Yes
No
Not known
Has there been any police involvement with the respondent or
other occupiers of the property?
Yes
No
Not known
Has there been any social services involvement with the respondent
or other occupiers of the property?
Yes
No
Not known
Are any dogs or other potentially dangerous animals kept at the
property?
Yes
No
Not known
Is the respondent known to have any mental health issues or known
to use/abuse drugs or alcohol in any way that may affect their
behaviour?
Yes
No
Not known
Does the respondent hold a firearms licence or have any firearms
convictions?
Yes
No
Not known
Page 4

If you have answered ‘Yes’ to any of the above, please give
further details below
Page 5

Statement of truth
I understand that proceedings for contempt of court may be
brought against anyone who makes, or causes to be made, a false
statement in a document verified by a statement of truth without
an honest belief in its truth.
I believe that the facts stated in this form are true.
The applicant believes that the facts stated in this form are
true. I am authorised by the applicant to sign this statement.
Signature
Applicant
Applicant’s legal representative (as defined by FPR 2.3(1))
Date
Day Month Year
Full name
Name of applicant’s legal representative’s firm
If signing on behalf of firm or company give position or office held
Page 6

Applicant’s address or applicant’s legal representative’s address to Note: if you have previously
which documents should be sent. given your address to the
court and wish to keep
Building and street it confidential from the
respondent, please do not
enter it here
Second line of address
Town or city
County (optional)
Postcode
If applicable
Phone number
Fax number
DX number
Your reference
Email
Page 7

Court fee Court fee
You can find the current
What you need to pay fee in leaflet EX50 Civil
and Family Court Fees
the court fee is
which can be downloaded
from: https://www.gov.uk/
government/collections/
How to pay the court fee court-and-tribunal-forms
If you cannot afford the
I have not included payment because
court fee
I have applied for Help with Fees online and You may not have to pay a
my reference number is fee, or you may get some
money off it if you only have
H W F
a small amount of savings
and investments, receive
I am applying for Help with Fees, see attached form EX160
certain benefits or are on a
low income.
Other – please explain why
You can apply for help with
court and tribunal fees
online at www.gov.uk/help-
with-court-fees or through
A debit or credit card payment the ‘EX160 Apply for help
with fees’ form and ‘EX160A
I will pay over the phone.
– How to apply for help with
fees’ guidance.
please email me details on how to pay, my email address is
A debit or credit card
payment. To pay the court
fee over the phone, you
should contact the court
managing your case.
I attach a cheque or postal order, made payable to ‘HMCTS’
Fee account details – for use by legal professionals
Fee account – a way for
Your account number solicitors, local authorities
and other regular users to
P B A
make payments relating to
civil and family cases.
Your reference (if applicable)
Return your completed form to the court managing your case.
Or
For Divorce/dissolution cases, please send your completed form to:
HMCTS Divorce and Dissolution service
PO Box 13226
Harlow
CM20 9UG
Page 8
